Let's take a look now at sequential and step requirements
processes. Here are the most common software and requirements
development methods over the last many, many years, sequential and stepped,
incremental and iterative, adaptive, and lean.
Let's dig deeper into each. Sequential and step
requirements is also known as waterfall.
Waterfall is the practice or approach from writing
specifications through customer delivery over a sequence
of milestones that can cover months, if not years of time.
I am sure you've heard of waterfall before.
It is still important to finish this section.
You can more fully appreciate the other models when you really
understand the challenges and even failures of this model.
And besides, it's still being used today.
Here is a typical traditional waterfall process where
everything happened in an orderly set of steps.
We start with developing our requirements pretty much all of them first.
Requirements leads to a design, a design leads to implementation,
implementation to verification,
also known as testing in quality assurance and user acceptance,
and then from verification to deployment.
These steps are very well defined, understood, and practiced for many years.
There were, and still are, in fact, much material, books,
tools, and best practices that have grown up around this process.
It also has made the executives and leaders of companies
for many years very comfortable because it was a well‑known
and well‑understood process.
There are some serious challenges, though, to this approach.
As we know, requirements are a moving target,
either because business is constantly changing or the customers
and users don't always know what they want.
Change is a fact of business life, always has been and always
will be. Given that, how would we be able to write and
complete a full set of requirements?
Is it possible to do? Likely impossible. There are lots of wasted resources with
traditional waterfall approaches. After a few months, well,
life happens, that is,
requirements change, people come and go,
organizations and priorities can change,
which drives rework, thus throwing away code that was developed and tested.
There is much more waste in this scenario than people realize, much more.
And all this churn certainly drives an increase in defects and lowers quality,
thus consuming even more resources, labor and money,
and this also means loss of opportunity,
maybe by missing a window for a new market or product since those
resources were diverted or wasted. Earlier in my career,
I knew no better, but now I do. Traditional project management process.
In order to implement a waterfall project, there is also a need to have
a project management methodology driving the project forward. With
traditional waterfall development projects, we had five project
management process groups, the first, initiation, planning,
execution, performance, and monitoring, and lastly,
closure.
As you can see,
the waterfall development approach worked hand in hand with
this traditional project methodology.
I spent much of my early career using various forms of waterfall.
Let's face it,
it's natural to try to understand the requirements before you
write code, but do you need to know all of the requirements to
the inth detail before you write code?
Well, of course not. A quick history lesson.
For a time,
the cost of running the job, a batch compile, and executing that job was very,
very expensive.
Therefore,
the waterfall model actually worked very well to save
costly computer processing expenses.
So for that time,
an interactive or incremental approach would have been prohibitively expensive. People forget that key fact.